# AdventOfCode

Advent of Code puzzle solutions in Elixir. It's work in progress and starting year 2015 to 2022, random days are attempted.

## Code Organization

All solution modules reside in `lib/<year>/day_<day>.ex` and associated tests have the same structure in `test/` folder. Input files are in `lib/data/inputs/<year>_<day>.txt`.

## Stubs

To make the experience boilerplate-free and give all solutions uniform (more or less) structure, type `mix gen --year <year> --day <day>` or `mix gen <year> <day>` to have the structure and stub generated. Optionally, if you have `COOKIE` environment variable storing your cookie then it will download the input file and add the title on the moduledocs for you. Type `mix help gen` for more.

To solve the problem for a particular year/day, type in `mix solve --year <year> --day <day>` or `mix solve <year> <day>` and you will see the result of the mentioned `year/day` if it is valid and has been solved. Type `mix help solve` for more.

## Testing

run `mix test` to ensure all solutions are working okay. To run test for a particular year and day, type `mix test --only y<last-two-digits-of-year><zero-padded-day>`. For example: `mix test --only y1501` tests for `2015` as year and `1` as day.

## Updating README and Stats

If you want to update the `README.md` (i.e. this file) please do not update `README.me` directly, instead update the static content (not stats related) on `priv/partials/readme_content.md` and then run `mix readme` to regenerate this file.

The stats, both in `<year>/README.md` and the bottom part of `README.md` are autogenerated by pulling from the live code state. To keep the stats updated, run `mix update_stats` command. This does the following two things:

* Runs `mix gen_stats` to update the relevant `README.md` so that the latest stats are always displayed.
* Runs `mix gen_readme` to update the main `README.md` to reflect all the stars.

Note that you can call those commands independently and also set up pre-commit hooks to run it for you.
